docs(self-hosted): provide more insights on troubleshooting kafka (#15131)
getsentry/sentry-docs: develop-docs/self-hosted/troubleshooting/kafka.mdx

sidebar_order: 2
---

## How Kafka Works

> This section is aimed for those who has Kafka problems, yet not familiar with Kafka. At a high level, it is a message broker which stores message in a log (or in an easier language: very similar to array) format. It receives messages from producers that aimed to a specific topic, and then sends them to consumers that are subscribed to that topic. The consumers can then process the messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section is aimed for those who have Kafka problems, but are not yet familiar with Kafka. At a high level, it is a message broker which stores message in a log (or in an easier language: very similar to an array) format. It receives messages from producers that aimed to a specific topic, and then sends them to consumers that are subscribed to that topic. The consumers can then process the messages.
```

> This section is aimed for those who have Kafka problems, but are not yet familiar with Kafka. At a high level, it is a message broker which stores message in a log (or in an easier language: very similar to an array) format. It receives messages from producers that aimed to a specific topic, and then sends them to consumers that are subscribed to that topic. The consumers can then process the messages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section is aimed for those who have Kafka problems, but are not yet familiar with Kafka. At a high level, Kafka is a message broker which stores messages in a log (or in an easier language: very similar to an array) format. It receives messages from producers that write to a specific topic, and then sends them to consumers that are subscribed to that topic. The consumers can then process the messages.
```

> On the inside, when a message enters a topic, it would be written to a certain partition. You can think partition as physical boxes that stores messages for a specific topic, each topic will have their own separate & dedicated partitions. In a distributed Kafka setup, each partition might be stored on a different machine/node, but if you only have a single Kafka instance, then all the partitions are stored on the same machine.

Reviewer 2: This paragraph has a bit of overlap with the next one and does not add much to understanding kafka IMO, so I think we could remove it completely.

> On the inside, when a message enters a topic, it would be written to a certain partition. You can think partition as physical boxes that stores messages for a specific topic, each topic will have their own separate & dedicated partitions. In a distributed Kafka setup, each partition might be stored on a different machine/node, but if you only have a single Kafka instance, then all the partitions are stored on the same machine.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
On the inside, when a message enters a topic, it will be written to a certain partition. You can think of a partition as physical a box that stores messages for a specific topic. In a distributed Kafka setup, each partition might be stored on a different machine/node, but if you only have a single Kafka instance, then all the partitions are stored on the same machine.
```

> When a producer sends a message to a topic, it will either stick to a certain partition number (example: partition 1, partition 2, etc.) or it will randomly choose a partition. A consumer will then subscribe to a topic and will automatically be assigned to one or more partitions by Kafka. The consumer will then start receiving messages from the assigned partitions. One very important aspect to note is that the number of consumers must not exceed the number of partition for a given topic. If you have more consumers than number of partitions, then the consumers will be hanging with no messages to consume.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a producer sends a message to a topic, it will either stick to a certain partition number (example: partition 1, partition 2, etc.) or it will randomly choose a partition. A consumer will then subscribe to a topic and will automatically be assigned to one or more partitions by Kafka. The consumer will then start receiving messages from the assigned partitions. One very important aspect to note is that **the number of consumers must not exceed the number of partition for a given topic**. If you have more consumers than number of partitions, then the consumers will be hanging with no messages to consume.
```

> When a producer sends a message to a topic, it will either stick to a certain partition number (example: partition 1, partition 2, etc.) or it will randomly choose a partition. A consumer will then subscribe to a topic and will automatically be assigned to one or more partitions by Kafka. The consumer will then start receiving messages from the assigned partitions. One very important aspect to note is that **the number of consumers must not exceed the number of partition for a given topic**. If you have more consumers than number of partitions, then the consumers will be hanging with no messages to consume.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a producer sends a message to a topic, it will either stick to a certain partition number (example: partition 1, partition 2, etc.) or it will randomly choose a partition. A consumer will then subscribe to a topic and will automatically be assigned to one or more partitions by Kafka. The consumer will then start receiving messages from the assigned partitions. One very important aspect to note is that **the number of consumers within a consumer group must not exceed the number of partition for a given topic**. If you have more consumers than number of partitions, then the consumers will be hanging with no messages to consume.
```

> When a producer sends a message to a topic, it will either stick to a certain partition number (example: partition 1, partition 2, etc.) or it will randomly choose a partition. A consumer will then subscribe to a topic and will automatically be assigned to one or more partitions by Kafka. The consumer will then start receiving messages from the assigned partitions. One very important aspect to note is that **the number of consumers within a consumer group must not exceed the number of partition for a given topic**. If you have more consumers than number of partitions, then the consumers will be hanging with no messages to consume.

Author: Good point. Will update these.

> Each messages in a topic will then have an "offset" (number), this would easily translates to "index" in an array. The offset will be used by the consumer to track where it is in the log, and what's the last message it has consumed. If the consumer is not able to keep up with the producer, it will start to lag behind. Most of the times, we want "lag" to be as low as possible, meaning we don't want to have so many unprocessed messages. The easy solution would be adding more partitions and increasing the number of consumers.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Each message in a topic will have an "offset" (number). You can think of this like an "index" in an array. The offset will be used by the consumer to track where it is in the log, and what's the last message it has consumed. If the consumer is not able to keep up with the producer, it will start to lag behind. Most of the time, we want "lag" to be as low as possible. The easiest solution to lagging is adding more partitions and increasing the number of consumers.
```

> Each messages in a topic will then have an "offset" (number), this would easily translates to "index" in an array. The offset will be used by the consumer to track where it is in the log, and what's the last message it has consumed. If the consumer is not able to keep up with the producer, it will start to lag behind. Most of the times, we want "lag" to be as low as possible, meaning we don't want to have so many unprocessed messages. The easy solution would be adding more partitions and increasing the number of consumers.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Each messages in a topic will then have an "offset" (number), this would easily translates to "index" in an array. The offset will be used by the consumer to track where it is in the log, and what's the last message it has consumed. If the consumer is not able to keep up with the producer, it will start to lag behind. Most of the times, we want "lag" to be as low as possible, meaning we don't want to have so many unprocessed messages. The easy solution would be adding more partitions and increasing the number of consumers. Learn more about [lagging](/self-hosted/troubleshooting/kafka/#consumers-lagging-behind).
```
